In this exercise, we start with a simple pipeline created from a CloudFormation template. You may recognize this stack from the earlier course. How can we monitor the state of a pipeline? Like many other AWS services, CodePipeline generates events that can be delivered to the EventBridge service bus. From EventBridge, we can deliver these events to a target like Lambda, CloudWatch Logs, and SNS topics. To do that, in this exercise, you will create an SNS topic and subscribe an email, then go to the EventBridge and create a rule. For filtering the events we are interested in, we apply an event pattern to the rule, which in this exercise, it will be the pipeline execution stage change. When configuring the rule, you will need to specify a target, which is the SNS topic you had created. If everything is correctly configured, you will have CodePipeline delivering events to EventBridge, which then uses a pattern to select the events we are interested in, sending it out to the SNS topic, which will send you an email. You will see that you can have pipeline monitoring with a few clicks in the AWS Management Console. Notice that SNS targets are just one of the possible destinations for this monitoring. A broken build is usually a pretty high-priority event because developers may have to wait for it to be fixed in order to continue their work. When a code build fails, it is a sign that productivity is impaired.
# __
When doing this exercise, think: What else can you trigger to get the team's attention? What about blinking lights with the use of IoT devices? All of these is possible with AWS Lambda and AWS chatbot integrations, with our EventBridge patterns, which we will not be covering in this lab, but would be curious to hear from you in the forums.