Congratulations on completing this course! We covered lots of topics. In the first week, we talked about monitoring by dividing the topics into environment, application, and network monitoring. For the environment monitoring, we covered CloudWatch metrics, alarms, and logs. I also talked about how and what to do when something changes in your cloud environment, covering AWS services like Amazon EventBridge, AWS Config, AWS CloudTrail, and the differences between them, and when to use each one.
# __
Next, we talked about instrumentalizing your applications with the help of AWS X-Ray and CloudWatch custom metrics. These are the services that can help you to monitor things that go beyond the infrastructure scope. Then, we covered network monitoring by approaching ELB access logs, VPC Flow Logs, and some ideas on how to take insights from that information. The first week ended with a simple hands-on exercise where you worked with Amazon SNS and EventBridge to receive notifications whenever there are changes in the pipeline workflow.
# __
The second week of the course talked about some aspects regarding operations for the sake of completing the CI/CD loop. We talked about important things to keep in mind for a smooth operation, such as the observation of soft limits with the help of Service Quotas and CloudFormation change sets. We also talked about CloudFormation drift detection, and dove a little deeper into AWS Systems Manager by covering its core features, such as Change Manager, shared resources, application management, operations management, Sessions Manager, Fleet Manager, Patch Manager, Parameter Store, and State Manager. Last, but not least, the course ended with a hands-on exercise where you used AWS Systems Manager Run Command to troubleshoot potential ongoing production issues.
# __
That's it. Now, we can't wait to see what you have built. Tell us on the forums or discussion groups. On behalf of the AWS team, I thank you for taking this course. I hope you learned some new things, and enjoyed our time together. I also hope to see you on the next one. See you soon.